---
templateKey: interview-post
path: /interview/ludovic/
title: Ludovic on building a brand
date: 2018-05-21T05:47:58.270Z
description: TBC
featuredImage: /img/ludovic.jpg
---
**RR: Ludovic, good to chat. We're looking forward to the launch of your record label Collective Records on Tuesday. Talk us through the journey you've been through to get it to this point.**

After years of playing everyone else’s game, building other people’s brands and watching other people succeed from it, I finally had enough knowledge and years of playing where I was comfortable enough to start creating my own brand. On the 25th of February 2017 In Deep We Trust Collective was born at Chinese Laundry. Franky Tapia giving me a shot and he has been a huge driver for me in my career right up until having this chat with you. Forever grounding me when I get too carried away and providing priceless lessons about what the real world is like out there in music.

Studying full time and working 3 jobs to keep the dream alive… 21 Parties later. A year and a half of success. Multiple party brands under our belt. I finally came to a point where I was producing better than ever. Having experienced how shit it is to deal with labels and how you are literally sending tracks to labels and they aren’t even being opened, I’d had enough. So, my dream of owning my own record label was made a reality. I met Chris Arnott 6 months before. He pushed me musically like no one had before, giving me great feedback on my productions, very honest and no sugar coating with his ‘blunt straight up no bullshit’ personality. It had a grasp on me and empowered me to smash on with it. With his enormous amounts of experience under his belt coupled with his passion of wanting to start his own label one day he said, “why don’t we just start our own record label”, So that’s what we did! 

<br><br>

**RR: So what kind of artistic environment are you hoping to create with the label? And how would you describe its music policy?**

How I would describe the labels music policy to be, I’d say ranging from your deep/minimal tech, to your more percussive tech house tracks with deeper basslines. The environment I want to create around this label, Being that label that is approachable, can give that artist that feedback even though it doesn’t quite fit the bill. Not only having amazing international talent on board, but not forgetting where we came from. Supporting our local Australian talent. So much talent goes un noticed and slips through the cracks in the underground music scene. What may have just been out of reach for our local Australian talent, has now become more of a reality. Not only now releasing their music, but throwing proper record release launch parties to do the music real justice. Kerry Wallace has given me the opportunity to run these at his beloved SlyFox in Enmore. The Lineup consisting of everyone on the remix pack, the artist who made the release, and some local supports. Having the opportunity for people to discover new talent and upon entry be signed up to all of our promo’s if they wish.

**RR: We're big on mental health at Rave Reviewz, so we were pleased to hear that you'll be supporting the mental health charity, Beyond Blue with one of your up and coming events ‘Cure’. Are mental health issues particularly important to you?**

My own story, I know many have faced and are still living it, day in and day out. I never experienced a home life that didn’t have an alarming amount of domestic and family violence present. Experiencing trauma throughout my whole child hood, paired with a pretty large case of ADHD. My chances of living a fulfilled life were slim. Experiencing on going homelessness throughout all of this, never knowing what was “wrong” with me or seeking any help with these traumas. Serious mental illness is what was to be shortly followed. A lot of DJ’s and producers lives and careers are cut short from substance abuse and addiction matched with mental health dramas. Artists Traveling alone all the time touring and constantly putting themselves under so much pressure has so many underlying effects. I told myself and promised myself in this journey I will never do it alone. And most of my closest mates have helped me keep that a reality. Keeping healthy mentally and physically has been a massive thing for all of us. I have been in the darkest places and had a drug addiction into my late teens putting myself behind the 8 ball. Discovering for the first time years back that there were actual services apart from DOCS and FACS out there that want to help people get through hard times blew me away. I wanted to get behind these organisations and managed to start working with one with disadvantaged young people.

**RR: Your brand In Deep We Trust Collective celebrated its first anniversary a few months ago. What have been the biggest highlights and challenges you've experienced with it so far?**

Hosting my own favourite producer DJ, DENNIS CRUZ would have had to of been right up there along side Laurent Garnier jumping up and going back to back with Pan Pot at our 1st anniversary. The feeling of organising a whole event and everything leeding up to it to stand back and watch hundreds of people absolutely loving life. Priceless constant highlight.

Financial struggle to run events is a massive challange, people don’t see this stuff. And a lot of the consumers would rather spend $300 on a shit bag of rack for the party instead of buying a ticket.

Not having much opportunity to regularly attend local events and network which is half the battle. Prepare yourself to lose money. At the end of the day you started all of this because you fuckin love it. Not because you’re going to make millions.

We heard you have been playing at a number of these secret warehouse parties? How are these going? And when is the next one?

Yeah that shit has been an eye opening experience. Such a good environment. Everyone is responsible for themselves and there are no mobile phones. I know, how crazy. Literally forced people into human interaction. Bit concerning cause you have to sign a waver and you have no idea where you are going and you’ve basically put your trust into these complete strangers to pick you up in buses with blacked out windows to take you there and not kill you haha. But fuck it’s a good time. The places they have been having them are mind-blowing. Playing at another one on the 9th of June.

**RR:** **Next month sees the second installment of 'Cure', taking place on the inner city rooftop of the Rook. What do you have in store for us?**

Our last ‘Cure’ we held was awesome. To expect with this one? Open air rooftop, Deep/minimal, techhouse and techno tunes from 2pm till 10pm right in the heart of the city. Cool visuals and a weapon lineup. I genuinely throw parties I love to attend. Lineup including some IDWT lads Daleh, Doctavio and myself. Compass events guys Nine One and wildfox. Social Bewung leader Jermaine Jones and WeLove founder Nick Reverse. Such a beautiful thing being able to regularly play with a number of these talented guys.

**RR: IDWT also has its own clothing line. What was the inspiration behind that? And who does the funky designs?**

Funny that. So it all started with the merchandise when I started making my own shirt to play in to get brand awareness. Then they were so unique the shirts some people started asking me where they could get them to show support, I guess it still feels weird to call them fans but yeah. I put a facebook post up and next thing you know I had 140 orders in a week. WOW I WAS NOT READY FOR THAT. Not a single clue what I was doing. Just keen as mustard. Using the Notes app on my phone to keep a track of it and working with my mates in their backyard to make these shirts was crazy. Now what help kicked things off for them and now they have their own company called Sydney Branding and Signage WHICH IS AWESOME! Then I honestly was tired of going shopping and never finding anything decent. Or everything was SO EXPENSIVE to buy. So I was like, “fuck it im going to make my own”. Then just coming together with a range of different artists and letting them make stuff to put on shirts and have them printed. Was seriously the best thing ever. All of the designs having substance to it with an important messages such as “ignite the flame”, meaning, Make your dreams happen, explore ideas and IGNITE YOUR OWN FLAME.

**RR: Turning to your own career... tell us who your early musical influences were and how you first got into DJing.**

Oh my god alright haha. So basically I never wanted to be a DJ. Never wanted to be the cool guy but when I found the possibilities of sharing music you love with people and now the ability to play music I MADE to crowds of people that come far and wide to just hear what I’ve got coming up next, I honestly started and never looked back. The feeling I still can’t describe. So, rewind a little. Fresh 18 with a world of knowledge of music and a pretty impressive library already. I use to go to my favourite local clubs to watch the warm up DJ’s and the openers. A lot of the time everyone would meet me much later cause I was “stupid” for going early. Then I began to meet some of the DJ’s who are now some of my closest friends. The DJ’s I met coming from the very old school mentality of DJ’ing were very hard to please. They quickly figured out my vast music taste and already built library paired with my respect for music. They said to me, “its time we taught you how to DJ”. This was at a kick on mind you. That was my job for months, the ‘Kick on DJ’. They belted such important information into me all the time, making me start with an opening slot all the way through to a closing slot just at the kick on. For anyone that knows music, that is a lot of music and time. Making sure I knew the most important part about DJ’ing that a lot of people don’t understand this day and age is music etiquette and appropriate music for certain times of the night. Everyone wants their 60mins of fame aye. But that is what separates the best DJ’s from the regular DJ’s and how long their careers last. Those guys I’ll never thank enough aye. They are my biggest influences to date with DJ’ing. Musically I first began to listen to Happy Hardstyle with Hixxy, Dougal and Gammer. Had my classics like Deadmau5, Benni Benassi, Supermode, Eric Prydz, Pryda, Daft Punk, Ame, Felix Da Housecat, David Guetta, Fedde Le Grand and the list goes onnnnn. They made me love house music.

**RR: Now, you've got a serious number of tattoos... what draws you to ink?**

Yeah I’ve got a fair bit on here aye. Originally this was a young and silly mind frame I was in. My psychologist put it in the best way to describe why I got so heavily tattooed from the age of 16 onwards. I was basically tattooing my own body to deter other people for wanting to hurt me. My tattoos were like putting a shield on protecting me from anyone coming up to me and trying to be the toughest kid on the block or at least seeming to be anyways. Directly linking to my life of trauma as a child I ended up just falling in love with the artwork and the stories and memories behind every tattoo. Every single piece of art on my body has a meaning to it though and some people are lucky enough to know some stories behind them. But if you know me now im absolutely loving life and am super approachable. Now it is a little bit different and even after living through so much discrimination and stigma because of them. And if you have seen me my tattoos are quite extensive and “full on” as some people like to describe, now tattoos are a talking point and are becoming much more accepted in our society. You will find a lot of people the same as me, but underneath the stigma and all that lies some of the most compassionate human beings with an interesting story to match.

**RR: Finally - where do you see yourself and IDWT in the future?**

Such a good question dude. I look at myself and IDWT as the force that is literally going to keep the house and electronic music scene alive and at the same time keep it sustainable for the years to come. We all have our place in keeping this industry and beautiful movement alive. Promoting safe partying, promoting great quality music and teaching the generations about running sustainable nights, businesses and brands for the future. My dreams are to be playing my music on a global scale, running my events on a global scale, releasing music to the masses internationally and being a key pillar for the music scene. And never forgetting where I came from and why I do it. Because I absolutely love music. I want to keep running events that blow people away and continue to remove stigmas and inhibition in our societies. Creating safe places for people to come as they are far from judgement, a place where people feel the love and feel welcomed. All of these things are going to be on the horizon with enough hard work. I wont stop till my heart stops.
