---
templateKey: interview-post
path: /interview-carl-cox-round-2
title: Carl Cox on performance anxiety and gender equality
date: 2018-11-05T06:23:53.789Z
description: Cox chats more sense
featuredImage: /img/carl-cox.jpg
---
So Carl... first things first, you know we’re based in Sydney at Rave Reviewz. I gather you’re coming back for Space on New Years day?
  
Yeah, it’s really good that Paul Strange has been able to represent the brand so well in Sydney. I did play for him  about six years ago at Fox Studios, that was an amazing event, great party. With me being a Space resident for the last 16 years and playing there before that doing opening and closing parties, it makes sense for me to be able to fly the flag for him    - I think it’s really a great opportunity to celebrate that fact. After 10 years he’s worked really hard to uphold the name and deliver these great parties. I’m really looking forward to playing there for him and hopefully the people follow. I mean I could play anywhere in the world at that time but seems relevant to come and do it at this time for him.
 
Yeah really looking forward to that. The night before you’re going to be at Melbourne’s shed nine doing a space Ibiza set there on New Year’s Eve right?
 
Yes so obviously now with space closing for the last 2 years, I haven’t been able to deliver a proper Space terrace set, because I haven’t got the club! I decided that I wanted to bring that island style of music to the dance floor at that particular time of year and bring some of those classics back… some nice piano tunes that made Space what it was and just really get down and dirty with good tribal tunes and just add an element of fun to the music. At the moment it’s getting so lost with where the music is at, that I just really want to break out of the mould and to give people some fun on the dancefloor again.
 
So it being a space Ibiza set… is that a reference to the musical style? Or are you going to be playing more of an extended set? Or is it the production? What do you think is going to give it that space essence?

Paul strange’s party is the same production style that you would get if you went back to the island, but the idea of the music to me is that I deliver the music, in not exactly a Space club in any way, shape or form; its just a style of music that I’m delivering to the dance floor more than anything else.

 
So Carl... you and Erik Powell are bringing back the mobile disco soon, which sounds awesome. We’re very disappointed that it’s not coming to Sydney, but you're doing most of the events in wineries. Why that particular setting?
 
So for me the winery setting is such a great backdrop to the music that we like to play.  Plus I think it’s good to do something different to normal, even doing venues like the botanical Gardens in Brisbane. It starts in the afternoon and finishes early so you can have a really good time in that window. It’s just the perfect playground and great to be able to share the music that I grew up with, with people that are the same age as me or a little bit younger but remember these records from wayback when. 

It is a shame that we’re not doing Sydney because we played at the Ivy for like, three years straight. It was always a good time there and obviously it wasn’t a winery but it has a pool on top of a building so it was great for the music we were playing. We’re not able to bring that back unfortunately because of various reasons - the sound restriction was pretty bad and of course you know the things that are going on in Sydney with the licenses, which also make it very difficult. We’ll find somewhere in Sydney and we’ll bring it back in the future, but at the moment we’ve had really good responses with Adelaide and Melbourne. 

Don’t forget we’ve been doing these mobile disco’s now for the last 10 years, this is year 11. This ain’t our first rodeo, we’ve been doing this for quite a while and people kind of know the nature of the event that we do there. We get to play classic house, there’s a reason that we book artists like Robin S, CeCe Rogers, Cece Peniston who we’ve had before and we had Incognito full band playing live for us last year. Before that it was De La Soul. 

It takes me outside of what I would normally do which is quite exciting. People know that I’m a funkster, and I came from a soul / funk background. It's music that I grew up with and that I like to hear again, because you don’t really hear it. You may hear some funk and soul shows on radio stations, you know, a guy who wants to play this music and bring it back. But when you hear it on a good sound system and you’re outdoors and you’re with other people that also feel the same about the music from the 70’s or 80’s... it’s a good feeling. We’ve stumbled across something which is brilliant, people of a certain age can be excited to go to it without going to a festival full of 18 year olds up to 21. And for us, it’s nice to have a mobile disco that we can basically call our own.

 
Yeah, it's definitely a really fun time. So you mentioned that you’ve got Robin S and Cece Peniston performing this time and they’re both absolute legends of that soul, house, classic disco sound. How did that come about and how did that collaboration take shape? What do you think that’s going to bring to the shows?
 
What’s also fantastic is that we kind of introduced elements of divas or songstress people and we have obviously CeCe Rogers and not a lot of people would kind of know CeCe Rogers unless you were around in the 80’s and the early 90’s but when he came out and he sang Someday, we had people almost in tears, kind of can’t believe that he’s performing this record in front of our very eyes. Even me and Eric, we’re welling up when he was like ‘Some day’ and we were just like oh my god, it was just amazing with the piano ‘ du du du’. People thought we were just playing the record, we’re going nah we are introducing CeCe Rogers and he’s here right now for you. Imagine that you’re in Melbourne, you’re in a winery  and this dude comes up and its just like he’s the one that sang this record and made one of the all time classic House records that you’ve ever heard. Me and Eric we were able to bring this to your attention, we were able to speak to a lot of these artists and go we’ve been doing these mobile disco’s and we’ve been introducing people like yourself and we would love you to come along and to perform the records that made you who you are. So imagine when we had CeCe Peniston for the first time and she sang ‘finally’, people lost their minds. Me and Eric don’t need anyone else, we basically do start from the beginning and we play till the end, when you play a mobile disco that’s what you get, you don’t get a plethora of DJ’s and artists, though we could do it. We could quite easily have Giles Peterson, we could have Norman Jay, we could bring them all but we don’t need them all. The idea is that from our own hearts and minds and how we feel about music and bring it to the table, then we put the sprinkling on the top of the cake when we go, and by the way we’ve got CeCe Peniston. And people go no way, then she’s there. We have a plan of what she’s going to do and we love the fact that we surprise people with this. I’m sure there are people out there who go they’re not coming, it’s impossible – they’re just gonna play their records. Then we go nahh here’s Robin S, show me love. Huh?? That’s what we love about it, we really have surprised people every time we have done our mobile disco. It’s definitely grown momentum, I never really had a plan for any of this, me and Eric. We just did it for shits and giggles, but now it’s turned into something that people really love and enjoy and are happy to be a part of it, that’s why we’re doing it again and again.
 
You mentioned the fact that you play from the beginning all the way to the end, it’s kind of a real extended set, a real journey. There’s been a bit of talk recently in Sydney and in the Electronic Music community in general saying that longer sets should be the industry standard because DJ’s can take people on a journey. Usually the industry standard is an hour long, which some people are saying that’s not enough. What are your thoughts on that? Do you think people should be getting longer sets as par for the course or do you think one hour also gives a lot more DJs a fair shot to get on to a lineup?
 
I think DJs should be doing 2 hours minimum at festivals, I think for smaller more bespoke events – 3 hours minimum. Laurent Garnier, you can’t book him unless you do a minimum of 3 hours, otherwise he isn’t coming. And I don’t blame him, because for me, we’ve got music that we can basically play all week. So to do a 3 hour set out of that, it’s a no brainer and when we’ve got DJs that can’t go past 1 and a half hours, it’s a bloody shame because we know that its all water under the well, we know that they can play longer if they wanted, but their contract, it say’s we have a plan, that’s the reason why we only play 1 and a half hours and it’s a shame that it’s a plan, because once you’ve played all your big records or whatever, then you got nothing left, but that’s not what being a DJ is all about. My upbringing for me playing music, when I was doing a lot of house parties or doing some bespoke events, I took my crate of records and I was on at 9, I’d be finished by 10, by that times I’d be playing bsides sure. It’s vinyl. That’s what you did, I finished at 10, I’d put my records away and that’s what I did. When I was doing Space, I opted to just go Carl Cox all night, that’s 10 hours. 

That’s what people paid their money for, if they come in, they want to see Carl Cox, so if the doors open at 12 – I’m on, if it finished at 7 – I’m still on. I think everytime I did Space Ibiza, I went on at 3 and finished at 8 every single Tuesday. This is after the DJs that we booked and introduced, so we would have Sasha on before me and play 3 hours, then I would go on after him for 5. I would prefer to do 3 hours if I could but once you got into your set and into your journey, after 3 hours, you’re not done. 

So with mobile disco’s to do a 7 or 8 hour set that is shared between me and Eric is actually a lot of fun to do. Eric can pull out records and I’ll be like woah, ya bastard, i’ve gotta step up and I’ll play a record and he’ll go woah man, I was gonna play that tune so he’s gotta find something else to play. Between us we’re pushing each other to play our music the best way we can but when people hear it, they know we’re having fun because we’re really digging deep into the crates or finding the record that is relevant and is what needs to be played at that point. Which takes a lot of concentration and an idea of what you’re gonna do. But to have a plan and do that for 1.5 hours, you actually belittle people who came to see DJs in that way.
 
 
We touched on giving people the opportunity to get on a lineup which is the flip side of the extended sets and one thing I wanted to get your thoughts on Carl, because I know you’ve got a lot of experience and wisdom and you’ve got a view on things. These days, there’s a lot of talk about equality and having gender equality on lineups as well, it’s something that we have been talking about in Sydney. People have different views on how to go about doing that, we’ve had nights which are an all female lineup, which has also drawn some criticism saying it’s also not a good idea to have just women on a lineup, that it’s trivialising it. Other people say you should have at least one woman on a lineup, others say you know what it should be purely down to talent and no matter whether a man or woman, people should be booked strictly on skill. I wonder what your thoughts are on that?
 
As you can imagine, me doing this for so many years. I mean, 9 times out of 10 you’re going to see a Male DJ up there whether it’s radio (can’t hear). It tends to be Male dominated, it has been for many many years but as things break down you are seeing a lot more women and a lot more girls coming in to the fold as talented artists and DJs as a voice of a gender of what’s necessary to see happen. I’ve always been a great advocate for bringing more girls and more women into the fold of our industry, because it is somale dominated. The thing is I pioneered and got behind Nicole Moudaber, I said that she was one of the most underrated, underestimated DJs that I have ever seen out there and she needs to be heard and seen and now look where she is. 

Because I stood there and I said that you know? And now you’re seeing the whole wave of female DJs coming through. And they’re actually doing the business you know I mean? It’s fantastic to see it. I don’t think it should be a feminist movement. cream rises to the top, talent always get noticed at the end of the day. If you’re good enough you’ll be there. And for me, I’m loving the fact that there is more females coming into the fold. 

It is a difficult situation, I mean there should be more female motorcross riders and rugby players. There is a female team but it’s all female, I want to see them mixing in with the fellas. We’ve never seen much of that happened., Should be noted, there should be a quality in all of this. It will be nice to see more female Formula One racers. There are out there, they can do it, if they’ve got the same opportunities as everyone else. But the females are coming and about time too.

In some ways, females are more mentally stronger to handle a lot of what’s going on out there which does affect everybody In some way. Loneliness or stress or dealing with certain elements when they don’t go right, when you have a bad set you try to pick yourself up but you don’t wanna slit your wrist’s. It all depends how you feel about it, you need to be able to handle that and move on from it, don’t dwell on it.

These all attributes you need to have when you’re out there and also being strong,. Most the time I travel on my own , well in my early days I did but now I have a friend and tour manager has been with me for ages. But from a female point of view, I need a companion to do that.

If you look at Monica Cruse, she travels alone even at her time of life. She might feel some loneliness by it but she gets out there and she rocks the bloody house. She is a testament to female DJs all over to and I love her for that.

I agree with females coming through the fold in a male dominated situation, but I don’t agree with having an all-female lineup. There is no need for trying to blatantly book DJs because they’re female.

You touched on that some of the difficulties that people have to encounter in the DJ lifestyle. You and I have talked about mental health in the industry before, but one thing we didn’t talk about on is like performance anxiety. So we interviewed I don’t if you know Archie Hamilton from Fuse recently like great producer and DJ and he was talking to us about performance anxiety and how it is a challenge. Did you used to get really anxious before you were performing if you still get anxious now and you know how you coped with that if it ever did happen? If it did it affect you.

You know what it’s never happened to me, people do ask me do you ever get butterflies? do you not wanna go on? do you get nauseous do you ever. You’ll never see me do it. You’ll always see me come through and bust the door open. If I have any anxiety I just kick the door down and go fuck you I’m here.

haha I like that, fuck you I’m here

 I’ll never second-guess myself, I’ll never not wanted to be there, I’ve always felt comfortable in my position. I think it’s because I’ve been doing it for so long. I mean when I first started to DJ, my first ever party… I did have a curtain in front to be closed. I had a DJ booth behind the curtain and I would open the curtain to see if anyone was dancing. Because I was very shy is a DJ, I was out there performing and thinking I hope they like this record. Because once the curtains open they looking at you. What’s to look at? I’m not Brad Pitt. I’m not going to start juggling three vinyls, check me out 3 vinyls! Ain’t gonna happen.

While playing circus music 

The things these days DJs ave to deal with, now people go to see you at a festival or a club, the cameras are on you. Things are even worse now because they have all the streaming sites that wanna stream you. So you’re standing there and you got all these cameras, literally a camera in your face while you’re performing. So you start to bead up, start sweating. Start thinking oh I hope this record is going to work, I hope the crowd reaction is going to be fine… You get this anxiety, it’s been created through social media. Not because of your performance, but because the attention on you is so difficult. If you do a bad mix, or you drop a bad record, or if things don’t go right for you, you get so critically hammered. And that’s the thing that makes you wanna recluse. So I actually don’t do all of those streaming sites, I don’t want em. I don’t think it’s necessary for me to be scrutinised in every way possible because that’s the thing that creates anxiety.

And I understand it, if you get all these likes, People love your set and they’re saying saying it was a great drop and that it’s seen on Facebook and Instagram or whatever. I get that. But the cost of that can be quite high. So for me, beat Tv said to me can we do this festival and stream that and I said no. They look at me as if I’m mad and say but you’re one of the highest streamed artists that we’ve got. Yeah great for you, but not great for me because I wanna be relaxed in whatever I do and I wanna play rather than being scrutinised in everything I do. So it’s a no. But if I say yes it’s because I’m ready for you. I’ve had a shave here, slept well the night before, all of that stuff, the set ups good - I  can give you what you want.

So I do tussle with this, but the thing I like to be sure of is that I’m in control of my own destiny when it comes to something like that I have always been and I always will. The only time that I walk away from it is when I’m done and I’m not done yet.

So to the young DJs there out there they might be going through who might be going through that anxiety in the early stages of their career, what kind of message would you give them? Would you give them any advice? Because it sounds like you overcame that quite early on and you’ve been kicking the door down for years and now you can pick and choose when you feel ready for the really intense pressure. Would you have any advice for the younger DJs, other people like Archie Hamilton that we spoke to?

More than anything is to be relaxed in your position,. Try not to turn to drink to curb the anxiety because that’s not going to work or drugs even. That won’t work either. Have good friends around you that care about you. Not just hangers on who just want to take as much out of you as possible. Because that doesn’t work or help either. Once you’re in the position where you need help, they’re not there at all.

You’ve got to be as happy with your position as humanly possible so you relaxed when you go out there, so you know that you can do the right thing by you. If that’s how you can see the way how you perform then you walk away much happier. 

That’s really that’s really insightful actually so you’re saying that you need to have real people around you because that will give me the strength to perform in the moment as well?

It’s the only way. Out of everyone I know, the one person I can rely on more than anyone is my friend and tour manager Ian. He’s been with me for over 20 years. If you look at some of the DJs, they have to have people around them to feel good about what they’re doing. If they turn to the hookers and girls and they say woo hoo that’s me. If you look at my DJ booth it’s me and Ian or just me. Because the thing I can rely on is myself. By doing what I do and at the level that I do it at. If you do have an extra person on there that’s your friend or someone you can rely on, then that makes you feel even better. But when you’ve got a whole stage full of people who you don’t know Who are looking at you and filming at you and doing all the stuff, that’s what creates anxiety. So there is a less is more scenario to what you do and I’ve always gone on that policy.

Awesome, you touched on people using drink and drugs there call, and you also talked about the restrictions that we have here in Sydney. I don’t know if you heard about what happened it defcon one. There were a couple of death sadly, some young people who they think took some drugs and passed away. Govt is now closing down that festival and at RR we think that is the wrong approach. You can’t be shutting shutting down festivals, that won’t stamp out the problem. We advocate for sensible drug policy. I wonder what your thoughts are on that with your level of experience in the industry and having seen these things happen. Do you think what they’re doing is sensible or do you think is a better way?

I don’t think there’s any better way, I don’t think shutting down the festival is the answer, obviously you feel sorry for the loss of the people who died. They’ve been after Defcon for a while now, I’ve been watching them and following that. The thing is at a good energy festival when there is music that is played, people feel they have to take drugs to keep up, but you don’t have to do. If these people died because of the festival, everyone who went to the festival would’ve died which is not the case. They need to look at the reason of why these things happen and you need to stop that from happening. Try and cut it off from the source, educate people drink more water relax in between songs and enjoy the moment which is the reason why you’re there in the first place.

Drugs has always been a social problem and they always will be. The government always find it difficult to deal with but they always try and point the finger at music festivals. No matter what, whether it’s rock, R&B, hip-hop, it’s an easy target but it’s a social problem they have to deal with before they come to festivals. Basically, to not give the license to continue means that they are still narrow minded and that they don’t know what to do with a situation like this. And they’ll have a backlash from the young people who want to vote for those in power and have these things to continue.

It’s a very difficult thing it’s been going on for many many years it’s unfortunate it’s happened are def con, it’s happened at certain festivals that I’ve been at which have been able to continue and it wasn’t their fault, these things happen, some people are stronger than others. It’s a shame that it comes to light where it turns into a knee-jerk reaction based on unknowns again. Sometimes these politicians are lazy and don’t wanna deal with it, they don’t wanna deal with it. Shut it down that’s how we deal with it and then what? It’ll happen somewhere else then it happens somewhere else. It’s just a shame. My words aren’t going to change whether people live or die But I’ve always had these parties so people can come in and enjoy themselves for the music nothing more.

Thanks for the chat Carl, we’ll see you soon! All the best.

No worries, thanks. Bye for now. 
